# CtyBike_Analysis
**Purpose
The purpose of this project was to take city bike data from a website and format with pandas in order to convert it to a new csv file. Once converted, we took the csv and uploaded the data to Tableau and created multiple different visualizations in order to show the differences between gender and trip duration between all the bike users.

**Results
From the first visualization we created, we took the trip duration from the total bike count. Upon viewing the data we can see that the majority of bikes users had a trip duration of approximately ten minutes. Breaking it down further we can see that this is true for all gender across the board, all having an average trip duration of 10 minutes. When viewing the data with a different visualization. We can see a majority of bike users started their bike rides around 8 AM, 5PM, and 6PM. Furthermore, majority of these users did this on Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday. When adding gender into consideration for the same graph we can see a higher number of males preferred these time, but males had a higher turnout for times around those times. Next when considering who had the highest turnout of trip users, we found that majority of the bike users who were male were mainly subscribers. While this data my seem shocking, upon looking at the amount of male bike users, we find that the amount of males who rode bikes was almost double that of female users. Furthermore, we can see that the common birth year for riders was 1969.

**Summary
In this project we took data from a csv file and converted a column to data time in order to make it readable in Tableau. Once we converted our new data into a csv we uploaded it to Tableau and created multiple visualizations in order to show the connections between trip duration, start times, and stop times when looking at the total bikes rides, with gender also playing a factor in some. From our data, we found that majority of bike riders were in fact male. Most of the males started their bike rides around 8AM or 5 PM. Furthermore we found that majority of the bike riders were subscribers. From this data, we can conclude that males are more likely to ride there bike to work or ride them home from work. We can conclude this because most bike riders are on the weekdays and are around the average start time of work.

[link to dashboard] https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/cameron6103/viz/CityBike_Data/Story1?publish=yes 
